# ecommerce-react-app :shopping_cart:

## Project Overview

This project showcase how an ecommerce app works. It allows users to add selected products to the cart and buy them.

## Motivation :man_technologist:

This project also demonstrates how Redux can be used as a state management tool along with React to build complex and scalable UI.

We will be using Redux for state management. I think Redux is a great choice here because it is simple, its core idea is that the whole state of the app is contained in one central location. You just need to define Action Types, Pure Reducers and Store thats it. Also, its very easy to maintain, to debug and to test.

As I am a strong proponent of immutability, I really like Redux Pure Reducer functions because, it makes states more predictable, pure functions change no values, they have no influence on the context or any measurable side effect. If the same state and action are passed on to a reducer, then the same result is generated.

## Quick Start

Run the following commands:

```
npm install
npm start
```

This will install dependencies, then start the app.

## How it works

### Logged in User :unlock:

- User should be able to Login/Signup.
- User should be able to see the list of default products.
- User should be able to search the products.
- User should be able to filter the products.
- User should be able to see the product details.
- User should be able to add the products to the cart.
- User should be able to see the Cart details.
- User should be able to buy the products added to the Cart.
- User should be able to logout

### Non-Logged in User :lock:

- User should be redirected to login/signup when he/she tries to buy the products.

## Tech Stack

### Backend

We will be using [firebase authentication](https://firebase.google.com/docs/auth) for login/signup along with [google firestore](https://cloud.google.com/firestore) as NOSQL database

We need to create following collections on firestore

`users`

```
{
    userId: "autogenerated",
    name: "Murtaza",
    cart: [
        {
            productId: "fromProductCollection",
            quantity: 1
        }
    ],
    orders: [
       "orderIdFromOrderCollection"
    ],
}
```

`products`

```
 {
      id: "autogenerated",
      category: "shoes",
      image: "shoe.jpg",
      name: "Hiker",
      price: 94.95,
      description: "This rugged boot will get you up the mountain safely."
    },
```

`orders`

```
 {
      id: "autogenerated",
      status: "cancelled/confirmed",
      products: [
       {
            productId: "fromProductCollection",
            quantity: 1
        }
      ],
      totalPrice: 49

}
```

### Frontend

- React
- Redux for state management
- Material ui or plain CSS for UI
- Jest/Enzyme as Test libraries
- Stripe for payments

### Deployment

- Firebase or Netlify
